#### Physical Health & Changes

You’ve hit the one-month milestone. Congrats! At this point, things might start becoming more normal: your breastfeeding times might start falling into a routine, and your energy levels may be closer to what they were before giving birth. It takes about a month to heal from a vaginal tear, but if the tear was third- or fourth-degree, it may take up to six weeks (more info [here](https://www.happiestbaby.com/blogs/parents/postpartum-recovery-timeline)). 

Are you and your child up to date on your vaccinations? This may be one of the last things on your mind when taking care of a new child, but it’s important to consider it to protect both yourself and your child from infections. For example, now is a good time to possibly give your child a hepatitis B vaccine. Receiving these immunizations during the postpartum period (if you were not up to date on vaccinations before the peripartum period), can prevent the spread of illness from you to your newborn. Your infants may also acquire antibodies through your breast milk from these immunizations, which boosts their resistance to infection. 

If you are not current on your vaccinations, or not sure what you need to be vaccinated with, talk to your doctor for specific advice. Your child’s pediatrician will also be able to advise you on which vaccinations they need and when they should get them. For more details on specific vaccinations to be aware of, take a look at pages 3 and 4 of [this document](https://www.acog.org/-/media/project/acog/acogorg/files/pdfs/publications/2018-postpartum-toolkit.pdf?utm_source=vanity&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=media%20%20hfh). 

Carrying your child poorly can lead to back pain. When lifting them, remember to use your legs, not your back. Avoid putting the baby on your hip, and make sure to switch them from the left arm to the right when one side gets tired. Consider getting a baby carrier or a sling — both your body and your baby will thank you.
